Senator Kefawber, Chairman of the Committee, prefaces the New Israel Camera Report with
an outline of the Investigation's aim.
The aims of the special committee of the United States Senate to investigate organized crime,
which is composed of Senator O'Connor of Maryland, Hunter Wyoming, Toby of New Hampshire,
and the WILE of Wisconsin and myself are that we have been hearing for a long time that
they are well organized and well financed groups of racketeers and gangsters operating
in the United States across state lines as a centric or as a group of centric.
The aims of our committee are to find out if this is true, whether the facilities of interstate
commerce are being used by racketeers on a nationwide basis and violation of state laws,
how they do it, the means that they accomplish their purposes, and we are also interested
in finding out the connection between crime and politics, that is what protection these
organized gangsters have in their operations.
Of course, the ultimate and the fundamental aim of our committee as in any investigating
committee is to get the picture in order to recommend federal legislation to the Senate
and to the United States Congress.
An incidental byproduct or aim of our committee is to turn the spotlight of publicity and
public information on these operators so that the local people will become aroused and
do something about it themselves.
Sitting in New York's federal building for one of its final hearings, the committee
became a dramatic tribunal showing a democracy about the business of cleaning house, even
though the shocking conditions it uncovered were made at the expense of the nation's pride.
Before coming to New York, it had conducted inquiries in many other communities, but it
wasn't until it started crying into big town corruption that it became the nation's number
one sensation.
George Martin Levy, executive of a harness racing track, was an early witness, testifying
about a deal he made with Frank Costello to have bookmakers removed from the track.
Costello was to follow him as a witness.
If you were not to say they must have died, you must have disbelieved Frank Costello
and he said he had no association with bookmakers and didn't know that Mr. Howard, I made the
statement that he had the reputation of being influential with gamblers.
I still say the same thing.
That statement was definitely true.
It's a jar of opinion that he would come to want to work gambling.
Well, that's a very hard thing, Dan, because I don't know.
I only know basically if the newspaper reports the right where he must have influence with
it.
If they're not accurate, you're asking me for the operation of a metal condition.
Well, here's the man you knew very well.
You're close friend, is that not right?
You're not a close friend, Dan.
Well, you're golfing companions?
Yes, on money occasions.
And the man, both two very often.
Well, on the golf courses and a few other times in between, yes.
And how did you think Costello was going to do the job?
Wasn't what I thought.
It's how he thought.
You don't reach up in the air for somebody else, there's a confidence in them, do you?
Listen, Senator, who wasn't what I thought?
I didn't think they were there to begin with.
It's what the commission of thought.
You thought so to the extent of $60,000 of your own money.
I did nothing of the kind.
You put $60,000 in, didn't you?
I've explained time and time again.
Why I paid $60,000 down.
I'll leave it to any family at first.
Well, I respect your remarks.
When you're going to be the health reasons over there, why?
I like to know what you think it was done for then.
And I'd like to have the opportunity to perform.
I'd love to have the opportunity to make about the whole thing.
I think any family at first needs to.
I'd like to have it.
I'd really like to have you express your idea of what you think it was for,
and give me an opportunity to reply.
That's what I will for you, get through.
I'd be very happy.
A jailer blingingly allowed this witness to appear.
He is Frank Erickson, who's serving a two-year sentence
after pleading guilty to a 60-count gambling conspiracy
information charge.
Before his jailing, the 54-year-old bookmaker
admitted to handling a multi-million-dollar yearly
gross in unlawful betting.
This is his second appearance before the committee,
and he attributes his present plight
to his earlier testimony before it.
So now flanked by his lawyer, Harold Corbin,
he stands on his constitutional rights
and refuses to answer questions put to him
by the committee's effective chief counsel, Rudolf Halley.
What is your business?
We can't hear you, Mr. Harold.
My business, I'm no business, I'm in jail.
What was your business prior to being convicted?
I was a high judge on the crack on the grounds
of my company.
Were you a bookmaker?
I refused.
Fuse the insonic grounds of my tenement promenade.
The Erickson will update any legitimate occupation,
which you ever thought that the paid it.
I refused the insonic grounds of my tenement promenade.
If it's not a fact that the colonial in,
by the gambling operation, I refused the insonic grounds of my tenement.
Why you have recommended these questions, Mr. Erickson?
There you have chair orders, you'd answer the question.
I refused the insonic grounds of my tenement promenade.
Mr. Erickson, the senator to Keith Harbor.
Castello, speak to you about keeping the bookies away
from Roosevelt Raceway.
I don't recall.
Did Erick talk with you about the bookie problem out there?
What would you remember if he had?
I don't remember.
As I said, the senator told me,
it's under the testimony of the witness,
99.5% of which consisted in saying our abuse to answer
on the ground of my tenement promenade.
I looked out on the Hudson River and the beauty
out this side and thought of America and New York.
And all the liberties under the Constitution.
I just thought, Frank Erickson, when he walks out of this courtroom today,
goes to his home, or goes back to his temporary abiding place,
ought to sing it to David in his heart and say,
thank God this hearing is being held in Soviet Russia.
I do.
Well, you don't want to change your mind
and really tell us some information,
which would be very useful to you to even Mr. Erickson.
I have no idea.
There are a lot of things you could tell us about,
which would be a very interesting thing.
I'm sure I had nothing.
Senator O'Connor.
Jackson, what I said previously was not said
by way of any threat or intimidation,
or to force you to testify it was, however,
and is, in endeavor to give you the opportunity
to state what you know regarding others,
if not about yourself, and about matters
which will not tend to incriminate you,
but which you unquestionably know about others.
And again, I repeat that by refusing to do so,
you are not only giving a direct and then outrageous
to front to the United States Senate,
but you are attempting to nullify all of this committee
as I'm taken to do, and for that reason, I think,
unquestionably, if you persist in your attitude,
you are guilty of contempt in the United States Senate.
I have no reply, Mr. Senator.
All right, that's all, Mr. Erickson.
Where are you leaving?
And Cought, Erickson, has started back to the New York City
Riker Island Penitentiary, where he's serving his time.
One of the few prominent lawbreakers
to be convicted and jailed, and as such,
a rare bird in underworld circles.
Joe Adonis makes a dapper appearance
as he proceeds to the crime investigation,
named by the committee as the head of a crime syndicate
and is using racketeering methods
to invade legitimate business.
He is advised by the same council
that represented Erickson, Mr. Corbin.
Adonis, whose real name is Dotto,
takes the witness chair with a prepared statement
which he has permitted to read.
Since my previous appearance,
the press has carried a release by this committee,
alleging that I am a member of a crime syndicate
operating throughout the East and Achim and Conjunction with
another crime syndicate in Chicago.
The release also asserted that one Luciano sits in Italy
as arbitrator of all disputes among various crime syndicates.
It is further said that I am a member of an organization
known as the Mafia, which controls crime
on an interstate and national basis.
After reading his statement,
Adonis left the hearing, saying he did not want to talk
any further at this time.
He refused to answer questions on constitutional grounds,
although he faces contempt charges for his stand.
Frank Costello was another witness to answer the committee
of Sapina in New York.
Describe in Senator Keefhover's report as a partner
with Joe Adonis in one of the two widespread crime syndicates
operating in the United States.
The Italian-born Costello told reporters
the charge was purely fictional.
You are playing, Testello.
Yes, sir.
No, you sound like swear.
The testimony is given to this committee.
I'll be the truth, the whole truth is nothing but the truth
of how you got it.
Yes, sir.
The committee has evidently delved deeply into Costello's past
to become well acquainted with his record when there is a record.
So he has asked about a brush with the law that happened in 1915.
I was convicted for Mr. Pino.
Way convicted for possession of a revolve.
That's right, yes sir.
March 12, 19 to 10.
Yes.
Is that right?
And on that occasion, did you use the name Frank Tobario?
Yes.
I imagine I did that.
No man, whether it's Frank Costello or Charles Tobio,
Mr. Wolf, he's the God, man of the devil,
as long as the only and none say it's the truth.
And we're here to get into facts.
And so was I with the examination.
And these facts about how to ask him to confirm,
and I said, if these are the facts,
dividends to me and benefits to me,
the man is in this country illegally,
and he committed a crime in falsifying the records.
That is all.
Then with the threat of deportation proceedings hanging over his head,
Costello has asked how much he is worth.
He refuses to tell.
What is your net worth?
I refuse to answer in my intent to culminate me.
Do you have $100,000 in cash and that's strong, Bob?
I said I would not know.
You know, the chair feels it's necessary to advise the witness
that any state body makes is being made under oath,
and subjects him to a charge of perjury.
And the committee does not feel that the witness is at this juncture,
and without passing on other testimony at this time,
answering the questions truthfully.
And rather than just going to go on,
the chair feels it is advisable to admonish the witness
who has, of course, the benefit of his counsel
to be extremely careful in this response.
Mr. Chairman, why not adopt the policy?
We adopt it about under a New Jersey policeman out there,
sending one of our good men up to his house and his presence,
opening the box and counting the money in to get a concertification of it,
get out of brass tax here.
It played ducks and ducks enough for this lot of stuff.
You now have an opportunity to make any explanation you desire in regard to it.
Well, I wouldn't know exactly, but I might have 40 or 60, 75,000 in there I wouldn't know it.
In other words, is the committee to understand that to the best of your knowledge,
the amount of case that you have in the box is approximately 40 or 50,000 dollars?
All right.
Another day, the committee heard an illness plea on Castello's behalf
and was asked for a postponement of his questioning on the grounds that his mental faculties
have been dulled by his condition.
George Wolf Castello's lawyer spoke for his client.
He asks that this examination be postponed to such time
when he is physically and mentally able to continue
and in surroundings and under psychinstances where he can testify properly and defend himself.
All right.
I have a low condition, just a five.
You heard my statement through Mr. Wolf and I stand by it and the low condition will I testify?
From here?
And until I am well enough.
Are you refused to testify, Father?
Absolutely.
You ask questions, Mr. Hallean. We'll see.
I said the same at the chairman that for a sick man, Mr. Castello
was a very astute witness in my opinion the last two days
and a very difficult witness to cross the dam.
Senator, I want to figure out my health voice.
I'm only here as a witness and I want to protect myself.
When I testify, I want to testify truthfully and I can't my mind don't function.
Well, your mind seems to be functioning pretty well.
You seem to be able to understand things pretty well, Mr. Castello.
I'm not going ahead in that, but all right, it's happening.
I'm going to proceed, Mr. Hallean.
Mr. Castello, did you hear the testimony of Mr. Francis McLaughlin yet today?
No, the defense of it.
Mr. Hallean, all due respect for the sound which I have,
an awful lot of respect for.
I'm not going to answer another question.
You just because I'm not under arrest and I'm going to walk out.
Now, I should explain to you exactly what the legal situation is.
You are under the painter and if, as I assume, the chairman instructs you to remain and answer questions,
you will thereby become guilty of contempt of the Senate committee.
And just a minute, Mr. Wolf. Just a minute, Mr. Castello.
We don't mean that.
Will you as ever resource in our command to see that he's brought to contempt and that he's arrested by the United States Senate?
The warning that he could be cited for contempt did not, however, deter Castello, and he left the hearing accompanied by his counsel.
He could now be subject to apprehension because the committee warned him when he first started to walk out
that it had the legal right to recommend the United States Senate that a warrant of arrest be issued.
Pointing out that in cases like this, it was not powerless to act.
The warnings were well-pundered. For on a later day, Castello reappeared before the investigators.
Do you have any safe deposit boxes, anywhere other than the box in your home?
No.
Do you have any places where you keep cash money, any place, than the one box you have described in your home?
Do you have any one who holds cash money for you?
That holds cash money for me?
No.
But you refuse to ask whether or not you have any cash money. Other than those you have described.
Well, I might have some other cash money, but I'm not, I haven't got no box.
Where do you have it?
Well, I refuse to disclose that.
No, Mr. Pointell.
Well, Mr. Pistello, we'll have to ask, direct you to answer that question.
Well, I'll have to consult my counselor and that question.
All right, you can see it.
No, I just point out it was counsel. When we were here in February together in executive session, the closing of the hearing, I asked Mr. Castello, what is his net worth?
And you interpolated with him and taught together back there and you agreed, gave your word, that you would have that statement of assets and liabilities and net worth further in the few days.
That's over six weeks ago. It hasn't come.
Here's a witness before the United States Senate subcommittee. We're examining about his life and his past and assets and liabilities.
Every time we get to the point of knowing where he's worth, what his net worth is, we're shunted aside.
Now, you're a lawyer. I'll tell you anything I know. It might reflect and it might not.
But the world would think well as it came through that way. It can't think well of a man that covers up every time.
And that's these things.
I disagree with the other Senate's attorney. I don't think he's seeking to cover up at every occasion.
Anybody, any sum of money, an excess of $1,000.
Yes.
What if the total amount of your indebtedness?
$30,000.
And to whom do you all that?
Mr. Erickson.
And that is the $30,000 we talked about some time ago.
That's right.
Why did you have trouble indebted it? Mr. Hot-duller?
Why did the client answer that question?
Well, you were directed to answer that question, too.
I still decline. I go into my net weight.
I have to have objective prior.
Why did you decide to take out naturalization papers in this country?
I want to be an American citizen.
And why did you want to be an American citizen?
Well, I, of course, I love this country.
During these years since you have been here,
have you prized the privilege of being a citizen of the United States?
I believe I have.
Do you appreciate the rights that are yours as an American citizen?
I do.
Has this country come up to your anticipation?
Has it?
Yes.
In the years which you have elapsed and became a citizen,
you have fed pretty well in material things, have you not?
I have.
Yes.
Whole money and so forth, friend.
When you signed or had someone signed your naturalization papers,
what did you promise to do as a citizen of the United States?
Well, I promised obey.
May I say obey what?
The Constitution and the laws.
That's right.
All right.
Have you always upheld the Constitution and the laws of your state and nation?
I believe I have.
Have you ever offered your services to any war effort of this country?
No.
Baring in mind all that you have gained and received in wealth,
what have you ever done to your country as a good citizen?
Well, I don't know what you claim, what you mean by that.
Well, you're looking back over the years.
Now, at that time when you became a citizen,
I'm in outstanding 20 odd years after that.
You must have in your mind something you've done
that you can speak up to your credit as an American citizen.
If so, what are they?
Paid my tax.
You were a bootlegger in 1922,
later bringing liquor in and an orange and a habit brought in from Ringelund County.
Is that correct?
No, it's incorrect.
On your testimony before us, I think the record was substantiated.
But if you did bring liquor in and were a bootlegger,
then you were against the laws and the Constitution, are you not?
You've thought of the Constitution and the value of the laws.
If that evidence is correct, then I speak of.
Is that right?
If the evidence is correct.
But I haven't.
Didn't you bring liquor in and a causative body in from Canada?
An elude to it is your liquor?
One of the gatherings and didn't you sell it to people in this country?
I bought liquor and sold it, but I didn't directly...
When you did that, you brought the laws and thought of the Constitution, did you not?
Why don't you call it that, yes?
You call it that?
Yes.
You realize with me and all good citizens that there can be no qualified allegiance to the Constitution of the United States?
Well, I wasn't the only one.
I didn't ask you that.
You're the only man I'm questioning now, sir.
You're the one man I'm questioning now.
And I'm asking Frank Costello if that is a truth yet.
Yes, sir.
Yes, all right.
Mrs. Virginia Hill Hauser makes her way through exploding flashlights to become a national figure as a witness in the crime probe.
The Alabama-born ex-Waitress and the admitted former girlfriend of the slain California raccoteer Ben Buggsy Segal,
Mrs. Hauser is a stylishly clad figure as she takes the oath.
Unlike the preceding mails on the stand, she proves a valuable witness, with ready answers to all the counsel's questions about her life,
her indomits, and her associations.
Mr. Tao, the right-hand picture in there.
All right.
Now, let's just don't flash any more bobs for it.
Those are the male men in the men in the hateful way.
All right.
Let's don't flash any more bobs.
It's a skivly young lady of chance.
All right.
I'll play the most witness as a Pat Defectious Taken and they stopped as soon as he started testifying.
And what I did.
Well, I'm sure that they don't intend to upset you, so let's try to just go ahead with the testimony.
What is your full name?
Virginia Hill, Hauser.
Sorry, your own way.
Well, I worked a while.
The men I was around gave me things were not gangsters or raccoteers or whatever you call these other people.
The only time I ever got anything from them was going out and having fun.
It made me a few presents.
But I happened to go with other sellers.
And years I've been going to Mexico.
I went with sellers down there.
And like a lot of girls, they've given me things and bought me everything I want.
And when I was with Ben, he paid for everything.
By Ben, you mean Ben Seagull.
Yes.
And he gave me some money, too.
He bought me a house in Florida.
And then I used to bed horses.
They asked me how much I don't know.
I figured whatever was close.
I don't know if it's right or it's wrong.
I paid in some tax on that.
That money I used to save it.
When I'm supposed to be out giving these parties, it was always that I was going with.
They paid for things that I did.
I didn't pay for it.
If I was paying for it, I wouldn't have gone in the first place.
After all, I didn't have to give my own parties.
I don't think.
Did you ever get any money from any other person whom we might fall against, or other than Seagull?
No.
Did you ever get any money from a cocktail?
And did you ever get any money from my own ski?
I never got money from any of those fellows.
None of those fellows.
None of these that I've been reading about.
And none of that I knew they never gave me anything.
None of the shitties.
No.
I don't even speak to them.
I mean, I met that Charlie once or twice.
I don't even talk to him.
You don't like him?
No.
Now, I have a note that you once told an agent for the internal revenue that you were on occasion asked to carry cash
between Chicago and New York.
That is not true.
And if they told that, they told life.
The only cash I've ever carried is what belonged to me.
And I've never carried anything for anybody.
And if anyone said that, that's a big lie.
And I don't care who said it.
If anybody said yes, that is what that is.
Yes, because the only cash I ever carried was my own.
And I never carried anything for anybody.
You cash or anything else?
You never carried anything.
No, I didn't.
Regarding the unsolved murder of Siegel, she's no help to the committee.
A Siegel was having trouble with any of his gang's spread.
I never heard any time that he was having any trouble.
And I never, all I know that he was worried about that hotel.
And I hate the place.
And I told him why didn't you leave it?
And get away from it because it was making him a nervous wreck.
You are leaving with completely a personal matter.
Yes, it was.
Do you have any theory about what happened to it?
Who it was headed in for him?
I don't want to mention it.
With the chief father, if I knew anything about it, believe me,
I'd be the first one to tell.
A foreign investigator is a glimpse at the method of dope peddlers.
She relates.
Once I would come up with a lot of agency, which I didn't know what was.
I didn't know what I asked.
And what was that?
And he told me it was Harry and Cocaine.
I told him to get out of my house.
And he says, well, don't I know people.
I said, they'd break my neck if I even mentioned such a thing.
And then I had people used to come and say, don't you want some?
I had an awful time getting rid of people down there that offered it to me.
Did somebody want to try to get you to help sell it?
And you refused?
Yes.
And who was that?
It was an ex-brother-in-law of mine.
And then we have his name?
His name was Validez.
I was Gonzales.
I don't know what his first name is.
But at first, you know you've never had anything to do with it.
I have never.
And the only time I ever come and contact, I even heard about it,
was then when I asked somebody, what gives you the idea that I want any of that stuff?
They said, well, the papers.
I said, well, you better not read the papers.
I threatened to break one's neck if they even come around me anymore with that stuff or even mentioned it.
Complications of finance are given an airing by the witness when she's asked about her income.
Maybe $15 to $20,000.
Well, you'd spent about 30 of your own.
Well, yes, but I just bought a house.
I'd say, how much did you spend for the house?
Well, I paid $16,000 down.
And how much money have you spent in addition for the money you spent on the house?
Well, you mean,
now since I got that house.
The last year, you spent this $11,000 in Sun Valley.
Oh, that, I didn't even spend.
And then since then, without having that.
Since then, we go after that.
Well, since I got married.
How much did you spend after that?
Well, maybe $15,000 or $20,000.
I don't know.
Maybe $20,000.
Maybe.
And it could be more though, could it not?
I don't think it could be any more because I haven't been going anyplace.
I only had a baby and that didn't cost too much.
Well, I suppose that would be fine.
And that wasn't by a hard bar.
I wasn't going anyplace.
I rented a place by 1800 for the season.
So please say what you think you earn in a rough, round figure without giving details.
And don't think to have the trouble of accounting to Uncle Sam the way the rest of us do.
Well, then he'll have to take care of that, won't he?
Uncle Sam?
Yeah.
Well, maybe he will, perhaps he could.
Well, that's fine.
Sure.
I don't blame him.
Now, then getting back to 46, we have wages on various sporting events, $23,870, as you're
in common.
That's also signed by Mr. Ross.
Well, it's all the same thing.
It's all when I've given Mr. Sam a few months.
That's what I've given him.
It's all the same.
I don't know.
And that's what he told me.
And that's what I guess I told Mr. Ross or he told him.
I don't know who told him.
I don't remember anything about those things.
I don't.
I was wondering if it was a coincidence that in 45, you again just happened to win $16,000
on sporting event.
Well, maybe I won more.
Maybe I won less.
That's what I said.
I don't know.
And the testimony reveals she's no two-buck better.
I used to get tips from people.
How do you do that?
We'd be interested in that.
Well, I used to know some people.
When they would get good tips, they would give them to me.
Some were bookmakers.
Some were around the tracks.
I don't know.
But they used to give me the horses all the time and tell me.
And sometimes Mr. Epstein used to make the bets for me.
Apparently every year you're able to win the rather substantial amounts of money from $15,000 to $30,000.
That's right.
How much would your bet on horses?
Sometimes I'd bet hundreds, 200, 500, depending on the horse.
And how good your tip was also?
You're still bet the horse rate?
I've the only thing I've...
Now, I don't bet anything.
Now I'm afraid I'll win and then they'll say I made more money than I did.
You mean you just don't want to win anymore?
I don't want anymore.
The 35-year-old witness, now the wife of a skiing instructor, has recently become a mother at low cost according to her own testimony.
And in all probability is one of the most unusual witnesses ever questioned by a senatorial committee.
You